[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>And now, world renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
[APPLAUSE]
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hi, everyone, hi.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And thank you also for
inviting me into your place.
It's very interesting,
because as we
do this show and
these episodes, I
have in my mind what I want to
accomplish with each episode.
And each episode
is very different
because I'm a teacher,
first and foremost.
You'll say, well,
you're a medium.
Yes, but as a medium,
I'm also a teacher,
a teacher of the spirit,
a teacher for you
to remember who you are.
Yes?
That you are first and
foremost a soul or a spirit
having a human experience,
not the other way around.
Can we get that?
Some people are going, what?
What?
It's really, really true.
And I don't think
it needs to have
a dramatic effect,
some experience
to happen, hopefully,
that you realize that.
So it's important that we
take on that perspective
that indeed we are
spirits first and foremost
having this human experience.
And we are in a three
dimensional world,
and really it's a
very linear world.
Time is very linear.
We have time here.
And in the reality of who we
truly are, there is no time.
In the spiritual dimensions,
the spiritual realms,
which are all around us and
they interpenetrate our three
dimensional world,
there is no time.
So when you leave this body,
you're outside of time.
Did you all get that one?
Yeah.
I look at some of you
in my audience here,
and they're like, mm-hm, mm-hm.
And it's great because it's
as if I'm just reminding you
of your truth, right?
Definitely.
I'm reminding you of things that
you know deep down inside you.
There's something about
this that makes sense.
There's something
that clicks here.
I've heard this before
deep in my soul.
And I always say it's
food for the soul.
All this information is
food for your soul, stuff
that you know deep down,
but I'm just reminding you.
So my job, really, I always
feel is I'm the mirror.
I'm holding the mirror up
to show you who you are,
that you're a spirit having
this human experience,
and that when I bring through
the spirit world, it's, again,
validation that
there is no death,
that we're all energy
and we cannot die.
Energy just changes form.
That's really what it's about,
and that's why I'm here today,
and that's why
you're here today.
Part of the reason I
love to do the work I do
is because of the life
experiences that I have,
I like to share
with other people,
because I find that a
lot of the experiences
are common experiences, that
we all have them in some way.
So how many people
here-- And experiences,
I'm going to back that up.
The experiences that we
have are not necessarily
limited to the physical body.
Most of you are spirits
who are outside the body
more than are inside the body.
Isn't that weird?
Don't you think that's odd?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good, perfect.
Good answer, good answer.
That's right.
So it's really, really true,
because being a spirit,
first and foremost, we really
are not limited to this shell.
We are more times out of
the body than in the body,
because we as spirit, pure
consciousness, consciousness
is not confined in the body.
It's outside the body.
So how many people here in
this audience, and you people
at home watching this, have read
a book and you're going back
reading this book
and you say, wait
a minute, what just happened
in the chapter before?
And you got to turn back.
Or now we have Nooks,
and whatever you do,
go back on the arrow
and see, right?
How many of us had
that experience?
Most of us.
Or you're watching a movie, and
you've got to rewind because,
like, what just happened?
Where was I?
I didn't get that, right?
Who had that experience?
The best one is
you're driving along
the freeway or the highway,
and all of a sudden, you go,
my exit.
Oh, there it goes.
Where was I?
So spaced out-- we've heard
that term, spaced out.
I think that is a
good term, because I
do think we're spaced out,
because I think, many times,
our spirit is outside
that physical body.
How many people here have
had dreams of your loved ones
at night when you go to sleep?
Mostly all of you, all of you.
And the reason why is
because you leave your body,
your spirit, your soul, will
leave that physical body,
usually out of the top, the
crown chakra, or the heart
chakra-- it goes right out--
and you will be with your loved
ones on the other side of life.
You'll see your teachers,
your family, your guides.
You prepare for new experiences
that are upcoming in your life.
You're aware of them.
Sometimes you go to
school or classes
to prepare for a forthcoming
event in your life.
And many times in the
morning when you wake up,
you have memories of loved ones.
Oh, I was with them, and
it felt more than a dream.
It was like, I was with them.
It's like a crossover, I call
it, because it's so real.
It's so solid.
Our spirit will come back
in the morning to the body,
and we wake up,
and sometimes we're
exhausted when we
wake up, right?
How many people have
had that experience?
All of us.
Like eight hours,
a complete sleep,
you think great, perfect.
Well, what it is is you've
been working on the other side.
Whether visiting your loved
ones, or going to classes,
talking to your guides, going
to schools, going to meetings,
happens all the time.
When I teach a class,
I swear to you, the next day
in the class, people will say,
I had a dream about you on a
school bus or in a classroom,
and you were teaching.
And I said, yeah, I teach
on the astral level.
I do go in and teach over there.
It's very, very true.
So that brings us to today's
show, which is really
a show about out
of body experiences
or near death experiences
or actually ways
of leaving the body, and
our spirit leaves the body,
and how do we do that?
Well, I'm going to share with
you another experience I had,
which was a near
death experience.
You've heard of those near death
experiences-- Eben Alexander,
Dr. Eben Alexander had one,
which many of you are aware of,
a neurosurgeon, who
went out of his body,
had experiences
which were very real.
And he met a woman there who
he kind of knew on some level,
long blond hair.
There was a recognition.
He couldn't tell who,
but he knew this woman
for some reason.
And when he came
back to the earth,
when we came back into his
body, he found out much later
on that that was his twin
sister who he'd never met,
who had passed over when
she was a young girl.
So that's a very true story.
And hew as a neurosurgeon--
he's a neurosurgeon,
so it's very interesting,
from a scientific point
of view, how things
are certainly changing
and the world of science
is getting very, very close
to spirit.
Yes.
So I had--
And I can only tell you this
based on my experiences,
I had-- 10 years ago about,
roughly a little bit more,
probably, I had food poisoning.
And I was sick for
about 12 hours.
And I remember that
I was in the bathroom
for the 12th time,
blood everywhere.
And I remember my
head hit the counter.
And I popped out of my body.
And I'm looking down at my
body, and I'm like [GASPS].
I won't say the word,
but not spiritual.
And I was looking at that body,
and I had the realization,
number one, that I wasn't dead.
I knew it was not my time to go.
So I knew that.
It was not my time to go.
So I'm just like hovering
there, totally outside of time.
There's no such thing as time.
I was outside of it.
I was looking outside of it.
But I was like, OK-- I had
the awareness of, OK, then
what am I doing here?
Because if this
isn't my-- I know
this is not my time to leave.
And it was so interesting.
All of a sudden, I
had these realities
that I was connected to,
if you will, a tapestry.
And at the top of my head was
this kind of cord, if you will,
or a ribbon.
And I remember that if I would
think good thoughts, loving
thoughts, positive
thoughts, that ribbon
would turn beautiful colors and
bleed into this other tapestry,
which I call the
human tapestry, which
is above everyone,
like a matrix.
And I realized
also that if I had
negative thoughts, fearful
thoughts, dense thoughts,
the colors would turn
murky and gray and dark,
and also, then, bled
into that tapestry,
making it kind of
murky and dense.
And I realized, at
the end of my life
there would be a
life review, and I
would look back at
that tapestry and see
and be responsible for
what I put into it, how
I influenced that tapestry.
Did I make it
beautiful and loving
and beautiful to look at?
Or was it really ugly and
distasteful and really bad?
What was my part in that human
tapestry that everybody shared?
So then, immediately, I
had a sense of the oneness,
that we're all connected to
this one tapestry or matrix,
and that what we
think, what we create,
will influence that tapestry.
And we're all connected.
We're all one.
Isn't that pretty
wild to have that?
I was like, wow, that's
pretty incredible.
And of course, I had
that experience, I know,
because I'm teaching it now,
or reminding people now.
So here we go.
So I remember then
the experience
was I saw my dead cousin,
Patricia, right in front of me,
her face, had never
seen her in 35 years.
She was the one who taught me
metaphysics when I was a kid.
And it was way before people
knew about these things.
And she was really into
reincarnation, metaphysics,
and I was fascinated.
She had completed suicide, and
I never saw her since then.
Isn't that interesting?
I'm driving home on
the train from her--
We went to her funeral.
I was a young kid, 10, 11.
And I remember her
sister said to me,
do you want to pick
anything from hers
of her library, any books?
And I said, I don't know.
I want that book.
And it was Ruth Montgomery's
book called A World Beyond.
I'm not sure of any
of you know that book.
It's a great book,
the very first book
I read of metaphysics.
You read it.
It's great.
So I'm on the train
going down to New York
City from Upstate New York.
And I'm going through these
pages, and on page 45 it said,
I want this read at my funeral.
It was her book.
Isn't that wild?
I mean, when those
things happen,
coincidence, meant to
be, no accidents, divine.
So anyway, that
was pretty weird.
So that was like,
we're so connected.
So the next person I saw in
that out of body experience
was my cousin for
the first time.
And she looked at me, and I
saw her beautiful blue eyes.
And I knew her from
the inside out.
I was talking to her,
not even telepathically,
just I know her.
She knows me.
And I said to her,
what's going on?
Can you help me?
I need to-- She
goes, don't worry.
It's going to be OK.
It's going to be all over.
And of course, you never lose
your sense of humor, so I said,
do you mean over over, or over?
Because I need to know.
I have a really
bad time right now.
I'm not sure where I am here.
Can you help me?
And she left.
And then I saw this figure
in the garden bent down.
It was a man in a suit.
And I went closer,
and it was my father.
He was 27 years old.
He handed me a flower, and he
said, it's not your time yet.
Go back.
And I came back into the body,
and that was my experience.
And I realized that--
and I say it very,
very often that-- dying is easy.
Living is hard.
So based upon
that, today I would
like to help you to
leave your bodies.
[LAUGHS] What?
I don't want to go.
So that was a near
death experience.
And there are other ways that
you can leave your body, still
being in control of the
body, but your mind,
your consciousness
will leave the body.
And it's called an out
of body experience.
And there's the Monroe
Institute, very, very
famous for teaching people
how to leave the body
and going to a certain
area, or a target location.
It's called remote
viewing as well.
Many of you have heard
about remote viewing, yes?
And our government
facilitated, in the '70s--
they used that, '60s and '70s.
And actually, the
Russians also used it
for spying activities-- very,
very successful, I might add.
I think-- can't say
officially-- that they're still
using aspects of remote viewing.
And it's just placing your
awareness, your space,
to a place and
going to the target.
So before you came here today--
and for you people at home,
you also can do
this as well, if you
get a piece of paper and pencil.
I'll wait.
So I placed a target.
Now the target is a spoon.
I went to the cafeteria,
and I took a spoon.
And I took that spoon.
That's the target, the spoon.
It's a metal spoon,
a regular soup spoon.
And I put that spoon in a place.
And the only thing I'm
going to tell you is-- I'm
not going to tell you anything.
I'm going to tell you
that I put that spoon
in an area, a
location, and I really
want you to tune
in to where it is.
So I'm going to
guide you in this.
And what I want you
to do is I want you,
with that piece
of paper and pen,
just to either-- you're gonna
write down something that comes
into your mind, or you're
going to take yourself
and you're going
to go-- and I'll
help you in a second to do this.
You're actually going
to go out of the body
to that silver spoon, bring your
consciousness to that spoon,
and be mindful of any
movement around it,
any shapes around it,
any activity around it,
anything you pick up from
when you leave the body,
your conscious will leave.
And by the way, that's
how spirits communicate,
because they come
close to us, remember.
And I'm picking up in my mind.
It's a mind to
mind communication.
So you're going to take
your mind out of that body
and just go to the target,
which is that silver spoon.
Is that good?
Any questions?
Good.
I expect you all
to do really well.
So I'm just going to guide you
a little bit on how to do this,
all right?
So just close your
eyes for a second.
Just close your eyes.
And I just want
you to be mindful.
Be mindful of the
sound of my voice,
and just be mindful of
your feet on the floor.
Place all of the
awareness on your feet,
because if you become
too much in the head,
you won't integrate the energy.
So bring the energy
down to your feet.
And also imagine that
you, as a spiritual being,
go way beyond your feet.
The feet go straight
down to Mother Earth
like roots of a tree.
And they are part
of Mother Earth,
because you're not
limited to the body.
Yes?
Very good.
And be mindful also that you
are a divine spark of God.
You are this light, and that
light permeates everything.
So that light, you are
part of the heavens.
The beam of light,
you are connected
to that light, which is in
the heaven worlds around us.
So you bring in that beautiful
sense of loving light.
And place that, bring that
lovingly, heavenly light
and the earth light, the earth
energy, up to your heart.
The heart is the
seat of the soul.
And just for a second,
remind yourself
with gratitude about who you
are, that you are a soul,
and you have chosen this
particular time in history,
in human history, to come back
here to experience human life,
for whatever reasons your
particular soul chose.
Just get to that heart space.
The soul is tucked
nicely behind the heart.
And just give yourself a bit
of gratitude for being here.
It's not an easy
school to come back to.
Just be with that for
a moment, and just sit
in that space for a moment.
And take a deep breath,
and then exhale.
And let it go.
Let it go.
Now do that two more times.
And inhale, and exhale.
Good come back into
your heart space.
And just one more time,
and inhale and exhale.
Great, into the heart space.
Very good.
And as you notice
now, you become
mindful that you are in
that space of your heart.
You feel much more connected
with your true self,
the true essence of your being.
Now I would like for you to
place your mind and a vision,
imagination, whatever you want
to use, on that silver spoon.
It's outside the studio.
I'm just going to
say that to you.
It's outside the studio.
And I just want you
to envision, let
your mind take you and travel
to its location, the target
location, and just see what
you can see and envision.
And write down whatever
you see, whatever you feel.
It could be words.
It could be shapes.
You could draw a picture,
whatever comes to you.
And just think-- feel it.
Feel with the silver spoon.
Whatever the textures, is there
movement, shapes, feelings.
So just take your mind and go.
Don't think about it, because
then you get in your way.
Let your soul travel.
Let your soul just
take you to anything
you get with that silver spoon.
Very good.
Here it comes in.
And a lot of people
are going there.
Great.
OK, you ready?
We're going to finish up.
What did you get, lovely?
Why don't you
explain that to us?
Because God knows I don't
know what that means.
>>AUDIENCE: I saw eggs and
like a kitchen and a gal
with a ponytail with an
apron on, and maybe grates.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: Straight lines.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, very good.
Anybody back there?
>>AUDIENCE: I pictured it
outside in a silver SUV
on a black seat.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're a weirdo.
And I knew that.
Very good.
Anybody over here?
I want to hear from you, sir.
What did you see?
Where did you go?
>>AUDIENCE: I was
outside with it also.
And there's some trees, and
kind of like a bench thing.
But there's some meditation
type stuff around it too.
And it's almost like
there's a figure there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Shapes?
Is there a shape?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, there's a
meditation-- like a rock type
thing.
And then there's a statue--
a little small statue.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very interesting.
Very good.
>>AUDIENCE: I got under
one of those picnic
tables, the benches, and it was
close to the earth on cement.
And I saw blue skies,
clouds, and the grass.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, good.
Anybody else?
Any of you guys?
What did you get?
You had to go somewhere?
You went, so--
>>AUDIENCE: In a closet, inside
a lapel jacket, or a jacket.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I had it
there before I placed it.
>>AUDIENCE: Interesting.
Did you really?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, my god.
>>AUDIENCE: Well,
I saw it there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I had it
there before I placed it.
Very good.
Anybody?
OK.
So where it was was--
and you were the closest.
So right now, if you
looked at that spoon,
it will be facing up
to the sky, looking up.
It's underneath a tree
and next to some--
in a little meditation
area with stones on it.
And there are like
bushes all around it.
And the picnic table
isn't too far away.
And it's next to a
building with old stone.
So you did really, really well.
So some of you
got the structure.
Some of you got a
feeling of stone.
Somebody got the
light of the sky.
And it's just a matter
if you just go with it.
I like that you left.
You left.
You went there.
Your mind kind of
went, and I love that.
And the more one can do that,
the more practice you get,
the better you'll get at it.
So if I put that spoon
next to water, one of you
might have picked
up the movement.
And you say, there's movement
going back and forth,
and that would have
been the water moving.
So that happens, too.
Sometimes you get a cold
breeze, a hot breeze,
and it all means something.
So the more you can
fine tune into that,
you can do it, because
you travel all the time.
OK, is that good?
Yes.
So try it at home,
too, and good luck.
I hope all of you did.
If you did get it at home,
write to me on my Facebook page
and tell me, would you please?
What I like to do is I
like to open up my mind
and bring spirit
through for you.
And if that's-- if
I can communicate,
I'd like to bring through
several people here.
And if the information
makes sense to you
please raise your hand
and acknowledge it, OK?
So I have a couple people.
I have a lady here, and
I feel like I'm a sister,
but I'm not going
to stay with that.
But I feel a lady in my 70s.
And I feel like I was in a
hospital or I was in a bed
before I passed over.
I'm pretty sure I was either
in a hospital or right before.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would it
be a sister of yours?
>>AUDIENCE: My grandmother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your grandmother?
Well, just let me get a
little further, please.
I'm not sure, but I
feel like I'm in my 70s
when I passed over.
I'm either in a bed,
and I know that I'm
being visited by you beforehand.
I'm not sure if I'm a
sister-in-law or a sister,
but I almost feel like
I'm in the same line here.
I know that there must
have been some temperature
problems, a fever
going up and down.
And I know that
they tried giving me
some antibiotics at
one time as well.
I know that I also needed
help with oxygen breathing,
because I couldn't
breathe too well.
And I just know that's
very, very true.
I'm also very aware that I used
to like to wear house dresses
or house coats, this
sort of a thing.
And I'm very, very
aware that I used
to like to keep coupons or
have coupons for the store
and cut the coupons out,
and I'm aware of that.
Does this make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: May I come to you?
What is your name, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Patty.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Patty.
OK, Patty.
So Patty, so this lady--
go on, mm hm-- would she
be on your mother's side of the
family, your mother's mother,
is it, please?
Great.
Because she talks
about your mother very,
very strongly here, too.
And she's talking
about jewelery,
so I've got to put that
aside about jewelery,
all of her jewelery.
And she's mentioning
that to me to give to you
so you understand that it's her.
I know that if I
had that house coat,
I'm going to put my
hands into pockets here.
And I want to ask you, do you
understand the information
about either being in a hospital
or being in a hospital bed
before she passes over,
or she passes in that bed?
Does that make sense
to you, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
And would you know about
people saying prayers
at the time of her passing--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --or right
before the passing?
And you'd be very,
very aware then,
also-- I've just got to repeat
my information that I receive--
about whether there would be
fevers or temperatures going
up and down at one point?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
you would remember,
as she comes close to me,
gives me a memory of someone
dabbling her forehead
with a cloth.
Would that-- you
would have done that?
You understand that?
So you would have done that.
And she's just remembering
this, as she comes closer
into this atmosphere,
into your space,
she's remembering
that you did that.
I understand that.
She was a-- This is
your grandmother then?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
you took good care of her.
I know when other
people in the family
would not take care of
her, you stepped in.
Do you understand that?
And she wants to
thank you for that.
Is her dad with her?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her dad's
over there, has to be.
He's too old to be
here, I'd think.
And there's a brother
as well, she said.
She says my brother's
finally here.
I know there's another
sister over there as well.
And she's now talking
about my whole family.
And she said, oh, but I still
have some things down there
on the earth.
And I know that there was
a problem with her family
after she passed away.
So I don't know whether
it was an argument,
or whether there was some
separation, some disagreement
with some of her belongings,
do you understand that, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes?
And she's just
acknowledging that.
And I want to talk about you
really cared about my things.
I know that you
care about dignity.
I know that you-- She
comes beautifully perfumed.
She has perfume on.
And she wants to say
something about either
you have her perfume, you have
an old bottle of her perfume,
don't you?
Yes.
So she's talking
about you having that.
And she said, as you smell
that, that's me there.
And you know you've
smelt it, don't you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm
going to tell you,
within the past week, you smelt
that perfume in your house.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So it's just acknowledgement and
validation that she's with you
and that she's--- that's her.
I know that I like--
OK, thank you.
Got you.
She said, I haven't
gone anywhere, darling.
I haven't gone
anywhere, darling.
I still like to watch--
sit and TV with you.
I still watch my favorite
television shows with you.
And I'm still watching
you watching shows.
I know that you love to do those
crossword puzzles and watch TV,
or you have a newspaper
there with the TV on.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She said she was
with you in the living room
or TV room, and you
were sitting there
and you either had a
periodical or a newspaper
on your lap while you're
watching a television show.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
She's just giving
me that in my mind.
She's showing me
that in my mind.
Now why do you like to watch
these crime shows, or you like
to watch the crime shows,
you understand that?
But you said, as I'm
with her, she goes, I
don't understand why
she watches that stuff.
I don't understand why
And she's saying that to me.
It's all this nitty
gritty crime, dirty.
You know, get some stuff going.
So I've got to tell you that.
And she's just
laughing about that.
She said, they
told me over here I
had to come through with
something you understood,
right?
Now I know that
she wants to talk
about a cuckoo clock,
a grandfather clock.
You understand, please?
Do you own that clock?
Would you understand
about having the clock?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
And I know that it doesn't work.
I'm very aware it
doesn't work, because I
know the hands are stuck.
So if I go to there, I
I would know that one'd be
the longhand looks like it's
going to 10, and whether
it's a four or a three,
it's down this way.
I want to talk about
a sister that she has,
and she must have had a sister.
I know there's problems
there with her sister,
and I don't think they
talked for a while.
But she's met her
in the spirit world,
and she's forgiven everything.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She has her
animals with her as well.
I know she has a
little doggie with her.
But she has a doggie.
You understand, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that
doggie was her life.
It was her life.
It really was her life.
And I know in her
lifetime, she had
brought through many, many-- she
had been through an experience
where she lost some people
in a war or in the military,
and she got to meet them again.
I need to let you know that.
I need to let you know.
I think there were two
men, two men, not one, two,
that she had lost in a war
or in a military situation.
Do you understand that?
One more thing, then
I've got to move on here,
because I have another
gentleman pushing in.
I am very aware either of a
board games or board game.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, my gosh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you
used to play the board
game with me, board games.
I'm not sure if it was Monopoly.
It was, great.
And she wants to thank you.
What?
She said she cheated
every once in a while.
She just said that in my head.
She cheated every
once in a while.
So she wants me
to tell you that.
And she comes in love.
And she's talking about your
mama, your mama, your mama,
your mama.
I don't know.
I just think your mama has
strange views, she said.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
says your mother
has some very strange views.
This lady doesn't care what
people think, you know.
She doesn't care what
people think of her.
The heck with them, she says.
And I know she was
raised in a farming area.
There was a farm in the Midwest
and she has a farm as a girl.
She's telling me that.
And I know that.
And I know that
she, in some ways,
I feel like you're more
of a daughter to her
than her own daughter is.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Now if I
can say one more thing,
then I'm going to move
onto this gentleman.
I have Rebecca's Farm.
Rebecca.
Rebecca's Farm.
Do you remember that?
There was, I don't
know, Rebecca's Farm
was either a book or
something, Rebecca's Farm,
or something like that.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Remember
that, the title?
I don't know why she's
referring to this,
but I want to refer
to Rebecca's Farm.
Would you look
and see if there's
a book with that name on
it, or see what that means,
because she's just
bringing that to my mind.
>>AUDIENCE: I know
what it means.
She used to read it to me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She used
to read it to you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
I'll leave with that.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
I have a gentleman
here who comes,
and he's a father figure who
comes to me very, very clearly.
Have you lost a father?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right
over here, your dad?
Well, you're not
related, are you?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: See, I have a man
here, so he's right with her,
OK.
I thought I was with you,
because he comes over here.
OK.
So I need to go-- come--
Isn't it interesting?
One right after
to the other one.
Love that.
This grandmother's very
open to staying, you see.
She would have been
into this stuff.
Your grandmother would
have loved this stuff.
She's so happy you're here.
She's saying, bring
champagne toast.
She brings me a champagne glass.
Toast, toast, toast.
I know February birthday,
also mentioning.
So let me come to you.
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Anne.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Anne,
do you remember
when he used to open up the
map and show you the map?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm going
to talk about a memory
that he comes
through with for me.
Is I'm either in a
Chevy car, an old Chevy
that he used to drive.
It was an old car.
And he used to open
up his old maps
that he would get at
the filling station.
He's saying filling station.
I haven't heard that expression
in years, the filling station,
really.
And he's saying, they gave
us a map when we filled up.
They gave us a map
when we filled it.
Do you remember that?
Would you remember
either Sunday afternoon
drives, or just going in
that car with your dad.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: With the drives?
And would you remember that,
unfolding the map or something
like this, right?
Great.
I know that I love this guy.
I love him.
I just love his energy.
I love his energy.
I love his handwriting.
I've got to tell you, he
has very neat and beautiful
handwriting.
And I know that, if you
look at his handwriting,
I know you must
have books that he
had with his signature
in the front of it.
You understand
that, please, Anne?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
And I know that
if I look at that,
I see these big loopy letters,
and very artistically done.
Now I'm very aware
that there could
have been a middle
initial with him,
and that he would
not write his name
without that middle initial
being point-- sorry, part
of it, because his whole name--
And I can't get necessarily
the full name, the
middle name, but I
know it's an initial there.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
feel, in some ways,
a bit conservative to this man.
I feel like I grew up in a,
I'm not going to say staunch,
but there's an establishment
he grows up in.
I feel he's a self-made person.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I think everybody
should be very proud of him.
He works his hands to the
bones when he's younger.
I know that he works, aged
12 that he starts working.
Age 12 he has to go out there
and do hard, difficult things.
I'm very, very
aware at one point,
around 18 years of
age, 19 years of age,
I know mechanical
things, he's got
to go in to fix cars or
fix the underneath of cars,
because that's what
he's showing me.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who used to
deliver things to places?
Did he have to deliver
things at one point, please?
>>AUDIENCE: He was a newspaper--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A newspaper
man, delivered newspapers.
>>AUDIENCE: Threw
newspapers as a boy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
I know that was very hard.
I like horses, by the way, too.
So I like farming
or horses around
or pastures around there.
And I like that with this man.
I would ask you if you thought
about keeping a hat of his,
and don't you have it?
>>AUDIENCE: There's
one in my house, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much,
because he wants
you to acknowledge
the hat that you have of his.
Where is your mother?
>>AUDIENCE: She's
in North Texas.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What's
going on with your mother?
Do you not speak with her?
>>AUDIENCE: We are estranged.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah.
So I know that the reason
why he's here tonight
is for you to make
amends with your mom.
Oh.
Aren't you happy you came today?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
And I knew you were
going to say that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You knew
I was going to say that,
because it's a real
important thing.
Your father loves you so much--
>>AUDIENCE: I know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --that he's come
all this way from the spirit
realm to tell you the most
important thing for your soul
is to forgive your mother.
You know, she's a big mouth.
She's a loud mouth, he says.
He says she has no
sense of caution.
She has no sense of
holding things back.
She doesn't respect boundaries.
She just speaks it,
but that's who she is.
>>AUDIENCE: I know that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's who she is.
We've got to love her, warts and
all, because nobody's perfect,
per se.
We all have a history.
We all have that back history.
So if you can find
it in your heart
to forgive her for the
little that she knows,
she's probably not
even aware of that.
So as I say before--
I say in every show,
practically-- take the
high road, less traffic.
And when you can
forgive someone else,
you would love if they could
forgive you, so do that.
It's causing problems
in your stomach.
It's causing these
little indigestions.
You've got some indigestion
things going on,
your dad's saying.
So I don't know what that
is, but it's emotional.
It's emotional stuff.
And I know it's
split up the family.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, it has.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Didn't she live
with your sister for a while?
>>AUDIENCE: Um,
I have a brother.
My brother lived with
her for a while, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And does she
not get along with his wife,
or there's little
problems there?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, there's
big problems there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah,
I know there is,
because it's your
sister-- I'm sorry.
He corrected me.
It's the sister-in-law.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's problems
with the sister-in-law and her,
she's living at the
sister-in-law's house,
and there's problems there.
Good.
Who did the cartoons,
cartoon drawing?
When your dad was younger, did
he ever fool around with just
for the heck with
these sketches?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
he loved to sketch.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that some of his sketches,
he tells me, still exist.
So I think your mother
might have some.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm sure she does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know there's an attic,
or there's a garage
or something where
she has some of those things.
And send her a card and
say, I'm very sorry.
Please forgive me.
I love you for who you are.
That's all you have to say.
>>AUDIENCE: [LAUGHS].
OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
it's hard, honey.
But you don't have to come back
and do it all over again now,
do you?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
So I'll leave you with that.
God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: All
right, thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're welcome.
[APPLAUSE]
I want to talk
about somebody who
knows about a little
girl, young girl.
I would say she's probably in
her late teens to early 20s,
and I'm not sure if she's
directly affected here
in the room or that
you would know of her.
But I need to ask somebody
if they know someone
that past quickly,
unexpectedly, in the spirit
world who was very young.
You do.
>>AUDIENCE: I lost my daughter.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You lost
your daughter, OK.
And was she in her
early 20s or late teens?
Were they 21?
>>AUDIENCE: 21.
>>VAN PRAAGH: 21, great.
So may I bring her
forth for you, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would
you mind standing, my love.
Give me a hug first,
because I want
to give that to you from her.
That's from her to you.
And I had to do that to you.
And your name again is?
>>AUDIENCE: Donna.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Donna.
Donna, can I just say,
and on behalf of her,
because I love
her energy, I just
want to say on behalf of
you and your daughter,
she wants to thank everybody in
this audience for being here,
because without you, she
wouldn't have made it,
she said.
So it's the energy
that you set up,
the atmosphere you
set up for being here,
including all the
technical people,
that she can come here today.
And she said, Mom,
you've made a big step,
and thank you for forgiving me.
Because for years, you
would not forgive her.
For a time, you
wouldn't forgive her.
You understand that?
Now did you want to bring
a picture with her--
you have today, or did you
want to bring that with you?
Was there a thought about
bringing that with you?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do you have
a picture of her at all?
>>AUDIENCE: In my wallet, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In your wallet.
Where's your wallet now?
In your bag?
You have a picture
of her with you.
Just saying.
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: Well, I carry
it all the time, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm just
saying, she's telling me that.
I'm being very literal here.
She's being very literal, OK?
Very literal.
>>AUDIENCE: Sorry.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So that's
OK, baby, that's OK.
So I know that when the
girl comes close to me,
I know I didn't make
my 22nd birthday.
I know I didn't.
I know that I passed
around my 21st.
So there's not too much time
passes by afterwards where
I go.
Does that make sense?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Because she's just
giving this to me
into my mind to give to you.
I know that you tried to
make her look very pretty,
made her as pretty as
you possibly could.
And I think this must have
been when she was laid
or, or she was in a coffin.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that you wanted her hair.
I know you wanted the
piece of the hair.
I know that you cut
the piece of the hair
and that you wanted,
right, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
That's so beautiful.
And she honors that.
She honors that.
And she said, my mom
made me look so pretty.
And I want to talk
about the angels.
So I want to talk
about an angel pin,
or somebody put an angel
pin near that coffin.
I also want to talk
about pictures of her,
photographs around there.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I understand
about writing a letter.
I understand you're
putting it in there.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that she
said she didn't feel anything,
and things happened very, very
fast.
I know there was a grandparent
over there for her.
I will tell you that
she will finish school.
She loves animals.
She loves kids, and she's
going to work on that, OK?
Can I ask you if you
have an earring of hers?
Why is she talking about
earrings or earring?
Hold on.
Did she ever have an
earring in her nose
or one of those things,
or a belly button?
Oh my god.
OK, so it's one of
those sorts of things.
Thank you.
Because I know it's
like an earring,
but it's not in the ears.
So it's a belly ring.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you had that?
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's what it is.
Perfect.
Thank you.
You never know the
weirdest things you get,
but that's great proof.
Now I know that she's telling
me her clothes didn't fit her.
I know that she had a very
bad self-image of herself
at one point, you know that.
And she said, I
look beautiful now.
And at the time,
she's telling me,
she couldn't even look
at herself in the mirror,
or she had a hard
time with that.
She's in a good space.
Don't think of her
as in a bad space.
as going to hell,
because that doesn't exist.
And she's a good person.
She had to go in her own time.
Why did you leave me?
Why'd you leave me?
She can hear you say that.
You must wake up at
3:30 every morning.
And you look at the
clock, it's around 3:30,
3:40 every morning.
Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
Because she goes, I come to
visit her at 3:30 to 3:40
every morning.
She looks at the clock,
and it's on the left side.
I look over, and
there's my clock.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
is because she's
sitting on the bed
with you, hugging you.
I know that.
Do you have t-shirts
of hers, by the way?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
So I know there's
t-shirts there.
I know I have some
brushes of hers.
I know you must have a
brush of mine, don't you?
And I know you must
have a cosmetic bag.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know you do.
I know you have my cosmetic bag.
I know that cosmetic bag--
my little flowers on it,
or some kind of
graphic with flowers.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know if
I open up that cosmetic bag,
that I'm very aware there could
be a little brush in there
and bigger-- got a comb.
I am very aware of the
eye stuff going on.
Do you have there, mascara
and all that stuff.
And I'm very aware, she
keeps on telling me,
two brushes you have of hers,
one bigger, one smaller.
And you've been
finding coins around.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she said,
it's me dropping the coins.
So she's dropping those
coins all around you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
you know it's her.
And you talk to
her all the time.
You talk to her all the time.
And where is the crucifix,
the cross that you have?
I don't know if it's
a cross or a neck or--
>>AUDIENCE: She had a--
>>VAN PRAAGH: A tattoo?
>>AUDIENCE: My husband
wore a crucifix.
It was hers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There we go.
>>AUDIENCE: A
little copper cross.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
this is significant.
And he's still alive, is he?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
husband, isn't he?
So could you please let him
know that she sees him wear it?
He stopped wearing it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that it's
in his top drawer or the
top drawer of his dresser.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So she
knows that he did that.
I know that if I go
there-- interesting,
she watches her father
wear socks at night,
like his sweats and his socks.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, he does
wear socks at night a lot.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
one more thing I'm
going to let you know that
she did not die in vain.
She did not die in vain.
>>AUDIENCE: I know that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you said that.
And I want to say thank you
for the-- yeah, all right.
I know.
She's not dead.
And I know the garden,
the back, or something
in the back you have
going on for her.
And she loves that.
But I don't want you to
be obsessed with that,
she said, OK?
And I know the pictures need
to be changed inside the house.
You have some pictures
that are sitting there.
And I know it's on the shelf.
I know in the kitchen you
make her favorite meals still.
You still do that in her
honor, and you sit there
at the table talking to her.
And you just did it
recently, didn't you?
Was it Thursday or something?
You just made a meal for
her, Thursday or Sunday.
Remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: I can't
even remember.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
think about that.
I like pasta.
I'm liking pasta.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, we had
shrimp scampi, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hello.
Hello.
So she wants me to tell
you she's right with you
when you're doing that.
And now this is something
very interesting to know.
The spirit can get the essence
of your eating something.
And they can feel the essence
of what you're eating,
the flavors, whether
it's drinking,
or the flavors of food.
They can get the essence
one more time of that.
And she said thank you for
making that in the honor.
And she said I'm bringing
roses to you when I see you.
And the dream we had with roses.
>>AUDIENCE: I smell things.
I know it's her.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
her with the roses.
She's saying it's the
rose significantly.
So her love continues.
I'll leave you with that.
Thank you, my love.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: God bless you.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you all very much.
Thank you.
Thank you all very, very much.
That was a great demonstration
of the love of the spirit
world, how we know we're not
limited to this physical body.
And you can be with
them in your dreams.
If you meditated and
started going into center,
you could learn to just
connect with them even further.
I hope you will do that.
Go to my website.
I have a lot of
programs that I created,
meditations to help you do that.
Thank you for being
a great audience.
And thank you everybody
at home who are watching.
And until we meet next time, my
love and light to all of you.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
[APPLAUSE]